>> Erik Reinert: Okay, so
now we're gonna hop into source code.
So personally, you're going to notice that
I like to get the annoying stuff out of
the way so
that we can do the more fun stuff.
And for me,
both of what we just did is annoying, so
I'd rather just get that out of the way.
Let's go ahead and
go back into source code.
And what we're going to do now is
we're going to start learning about
the application.
Like, we're going to start getting
ourselves a little bit comfortable with
what this is, how it works.
If I open it up and I look at again,
consider this a scenario where
you were just given this.
You have no idea what this is.
This is very common in the DevOps world.
So is there anything in here from
a DevOps perspective that stands
out to you in this list?
What would be, maybe, and
I'll say there's at least two, yeah?
README.
README, okay, that's one of them, yep.
What else?
The env.
The .env file.
Yep, yep.
Env, yeah.
Yep, yep .env file, yep.
What else?
Docker Compose.
Yep, Docker Compose as well, yeah.
So if I was jumping into this project,
those would be the three things
that I would look at first.
I would first look at the readme and
say, like, please help me, please, God,
make sure somebody documented.
If they didn't, which more than likely
they probably didn't, then I would go and
look at the other two.
So let's really quickly look at
the readme and we'll notice.
Okay, cool.
We actually have documentation.
Nice, all right, cool.
So if we look at it,
we see that again, it's a platform.
We're just gonna call it goals for now.
It has some features to it,
so it has user auth.
Like Mark said you could create profiles.
So, okay, we're gonna be doing
database work, that's for sure.
It has the ability to share updates.
It's got some functionality to it.
Let's look at the prereqs.
We've got Go.
We'll need to make sure we've got Go
installed Docker and Docker Compose.
Cool.
Postgres as well.
Then Google Cloud, which we just did.
We're off to a good start.
We've got a little bit of information
in here on the Docker setup.
It looks like we can use
Docker Compose to bring up a database.
Okay, cool.
Then we've got some information on the
OAUTH setup, which is what we just did.
Boy.
This is definitely not the most ideal
solution to manage your SQL schema.
But hey, it's a start.
At least we have schema.
So that's good, that's good.
But that's kind of like, if I was
being brought onto this project and
I saw it here,
I would immediately go, God.
That's something we need to fix, right?
Because you don't want to be seeding
databases through a readme file.
But it's actually really good that it
was done in this scenario because it
gives us an opportunity to do it.
Okay, cool.
We know that we're using Docker.
We know that we need to set up Google.
We know that we've got some
schema in here as well.
And then, okay, cool,
we've got some more schema.
And then, okay, yeah, there we go.
Yeah, .env.
So we've got a .emv is here as well.
It looks like we copy that,
we create a new one, we update it,
we then source it and then we run it.
Why don't we do that?
Why don't we make sure the app works
basically before we try deploying it?
That would be my next recommendation.
By the way, if you're in a scenario where
you're taking on an app like this and
you have no idea how it works,
familiarize yourself with it because
you're going to be debugging it.
And so if you don't know how to run the
app, you don't know what credentials it
requires and stuff like that, you're just
going to be bashing your head against
the wall later when you try debugging
it and understand why it's not working.
I think our first goal should be let's
get a dev environment up and running,
let's make sure that it works locally and
everything is good to go.
What I'm going to do is I'm going
to take the document's advice and
I'm going to copy my ENV
example to a ENV file itself.
The reason why I'm doing this is because
the repository should ignore that ENV
file, but I should then be able to
use it and keep it in the repo for
future stuff and whatever.
So I'm gonna copy that.
Then I use neovim to be clear.
So all the stuff I'm going to be doing is
in neovim, but yeah, by the way, yeah, but
you're welcome to use any editor,
obviously you don't have to use NeoBIM, so
let's go ahead and open that file.
Okay, cool.
So we've even got some stuff
here that we kind of noticed.
So we've got a Google client id, we've got
a Google client secret, we've got a URL
that's already populated, and we've got
a database URL that's already populated.
Okay, cool.
So it looks like what we need to do is
we need to put in the client ID and
client secrets that we just generated.
So I'm going to do this off screen because
I don't feel like doxing myself again.
But what I would tell you to do next
is to paste in that client ID and
that client secret values directly to it.
So it should look something like this and
then something like this once you're done,
but with the actual values.
So let me go ahead and do this off screen.
I have a strong feeling I'm going to be
generating multiple credentials today.
All right, and if you are curious to make
sure that you know which is the right for
which value, the client ID is
the like .apps.googleusercontent,
and then the secret is just
the pure string value.
So just to note.
So again, make sure you've got
the client ID and client secret and
then just save and close that file.
So there we go.
Now I should have my .env fully populated.
Cool, and
then I'm just gonna do source.env.
That's it.
Can anyone tell me what source
does reads it into your shell?
Can you give me a little bit more
of a detailed answer than that?
What do you mean by
reads it into my shell?
I guess that it sources and
it makes the configurations live
into your environment source shell.
Basically what it does is it will take
any variable that I put in here or
I export and then it'll immediately make
it available in my shell environment.
It exports those for me.
So if I do echo POSTGRES_URL,
you can see I now have that URL, right?
This is common in development where
I want to load a configuration, but
I don't want to have to do
a ton of stuff to do it.
ENV is a really nice approach so
that then again, once you're ready,
you just do source ENV and whenever
you update environment variables or
add new ones, you can just do source
ENV again and then it'll update it and
then once you exit that shell, it will no
longer be there does in that ENV file.
Do you have to have the export in front of
the environment variable for source.env?
You don't.
No, it's just like a habit I have
because sometimes it doesn't work and
I don't really remember why.
But yeah, you normally don't have to.
Yeah, normally you just do.
But underneath the hood,
Source is just running a shell script.
So you can do that.
It's just like when you have this,
it's actually just bash.
So if I wanted to, I could actually
write bash code and da, da, da.
Source just runs a script,
is all I'm trying to say.
So if you want to put export in there,
you can, but you don't have to.